# Daily-Power-Generation-in-India-data-analysis
Eploratory data analysis and visualization Daily Power Generation in India (2017-2020)
India is the world's third-largest producer and third largest consumer of electricity. The national electric grid in India has an installed capacity of 370.106 GW as of 31 March 2020. Renewable power plants, which also include large hydroelectric plants, constitute 35.86% of India's total installed capacity. India has a surplus power generation capacity but lacks adequate distribution infrastructure.

India's electricity sector is dominated by fossil fuels, in particular coal, which during the 2018-19 fiscal year produced about three-quarters of the country's electricity. The government is making efforts to increase investment in renewable energy. The government's National Electricity Plan of 2018 states that the country does not need more non-renewable power plants in the utility sector until 2027, with the commissioning of 50,025 MW coal-based power plants under construction and addition of 275,000 MW total renewable power capacity after the retirement of nearly 48,000 MW old coal-fired plants.

India has recorded rapid growth in electricity generation since 1985, increasing from 179 TW-hr in 1985 to 1,057 TW-hr in 2012. The majority of the increase came from coal-fired plants and non-conventional renewable energy sources (RES), with the contribution from natural gas, oil, and hydro plants decreasing in 2012-2017. The gross utility electricity generation (excluding imports from Bhutan) was 1,384 billion kWh in 2019-20, representing 1.0 % annual growth compared to 2018-2019. The contribution from renewable energy sources was nearly 20% of the total. In the year 2019-20, all the incremental electricity generation is contributed by renewable energy sources as the power generation from fossil fuels decreased. The drivers for India's electricity sector are its rapidly growing economy, rising exports, improving infrastructure, and increasing household incomes
